#summary Managing locations with REST APIs

We discussed about [SoYouHaveAnIdea clarifying your ideas before writing code] and [GettingStarted setting up the development environment]. We built [BuildingLandingPage a landing page] which [ClientServer communicates with App Engine back-end] and [Authentication authenticates members], and implemented [ManagingPerformances managing performances schedule], resulting in [http://cultureshows.appspot.com/ a sample application] with [QualityAssurance reasonable quality]. We've also added [ManagingShows theater show management] and enabled theater owners to [ExposingData display performances on their own websites] with the help of an YQL mashup.

Next, we'll cover REST web services.
 
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Introduction =

Web services have several [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_service#Styles_of_use styles of use]. So far we used [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call remote procedure calls] to manage shows and other client-server interaction. 

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer REST], with [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON JSON] data format, is now the de facto architecture of web services. We will implement managing locations using a REST architecture.

= Exposing REST web services with App Engine = 
[ExposingData We already saw] how to implement reading the performances list with REST. Following the same pattern, locations APIs are built by
 * implementing a [x LocationsResource]
 * [x attaching routes]



= Consuming REST services with GWT =
Besides [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-platform/ GWTP], we'll use [http://google-web-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/2.1/com/google/gwt/http/client/RequestBuilder.html RequestBuilder] and [http://code.google.com/p/piriti/ piriti] to work with REST services from GWT.

= RPC or REST? =


by implementing your required functionality, you have APIs for 3rd parties
firebug debug
automated API testing
jMeter perf testing
API monitoring



Building a new GWT/GAE app - 2 separate projects.


Pledge  to make REST services simpler to expose from App Engine and consume from GWT

= Web services best practices =

Good web services are explorable (maybe through a discovery API), predictable, consistent. Here are some best practices on building web services:

 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nyu5ZxGUfgs How Google builds APIs]
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VVovVjT_H8A The interaction design of APIs]
 * [http://www.readwriteweb.com/hack/2010/11/clay-loveless-understanding-ap.php Understanding API Usage] 
 * [http://www.infoq.com/presentations/SOA-Business-Autonomous-Components Avoid a Failed SOA: Business & Autonomous Components to the Rescue]

Other practices include versioning, working with API keys, supporting partial operations and custom verbs.


= Additional resources =
* [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/76595?tab=votes#tab-top SOAP vs. REST]
* [GWTREST Alternatives on consuming REST services with GWT]